Title: Using GTK on the X11 Window System

# Using GTK on the X11 Windows System

On UNIX, the X11 backend is the default build for GTK. So you don't need to
do anything special when compiling it, and everything should "just work."

To mix low-level Xlib routines into a GTK program, see *GDK X Window System
interaction* in [the GDK manual](https://docs.gtk.org/gdk3/).

GTK includes an cross-process embedding facility in the form of the
`GtkSocket` and `GtkPlug` widgets. These are X11-specific, and you have to
include the `gtk/gtkx.h` header to use them.

## X11-specific commandline options

The X backend understands some additional command line arguments.

`--display=DISPLAY`
: The name of the X display to open instead of the one specified in the
  `DISPLAY` environment variable.

## X11-specific environment variables

The X11 GDK backend can be influenced with some additional environment
variables.

`GDK_SYNCHRONIZE`
: If set, GDK makes all X requests synchronously. This is a useful option for
  debugging, but it will slow down the performance considerably.

`GDK_CORE_DEVICE_EVENTS`
: If set, GDK makes does not use the XInput extension, and only reacts to core
  X input events.

`GDK_SCALE`
: Must be set to an integer, typically 2. If set, GDK will scale all windows
  by the specified factor. Scaled output is meant to be used on HiDPI displays.
  Normally, GDK will pick up a suitable scale factor for each monitor from the
  display system. This environment variable allows to override that.

`GDK_DPI_SCALE`
: This can be useful when using scale-aware GTK applications together with
  scale-unaware applications on a HiDPI display. In that case, the font
  resolution can be doubled to make scale-unaware applications readable, and
  `GDK_DPI_SCALE=0.5` can be set to compensate for that in GTK applications
  which are already scaled by setting `GDK_SCALE=2`.

## Understanding the X11 architecture

People coming from a Windows or MacOS background often find certain aspects
of the X Window System surprising. This section introduces some basic X
concepts at a high level. For more details, the book most people use is
called the *Xlib Programming Manual* by Adrian Nye; this book is volume one in
the O'Reilly X Window System series.

Standards are another important resource if you're poking in low-level X11
details, in particular the
[ICCCM](https://www.x.org/releases/X11R7.6/doc/xorg-docs/specs/ICCCM/icccm.html)
and the [Extended Window Manager
Hints](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/wm-spec/latest/)
specifications. The [freedesktop.org](https://freedesktop.org) website has
links to many relevant specifications.

The [GDK manual](https://docs.gtk.org/gdk3/) covers using Xlib in a GTK
program.

## Server, client, window manager

Other window systems typically put all their functionality in the
application itself. With X, each application involves three different
programs: the X server, the application (called a client because it's a
client of the X server), and a special client called the window manager.

The X server is in charge of managing resources, processing drawing
requests, and dispatching events such as keyboard and mouse events to
interested applications. So client applications can ask the X server to
create a window, draw a circle, or move windows around.

The window manager is in charge of rendering the frame or borders around
windows; it also has final say on the size of each window, and window states
such as minimized, maximized, and so forth. On Windows and MacOS the
application handles most of this. On X11, if you wish to modify the window's
state, or change its frame, you must ask the window manager to do so on your
behalf, using an established convention.

GTK has functions for asking the window manager to do various things; see
for example `gtk_window_iconify()` or `gtk_window_maximize()` or
`gtk_window_set_decorated()`. Keep in mind that `gtk_window_move()` and window
sizing are ultimately controlled by the window manager as well and most
window managers will ignore certain requests from time to time, in the
interests of good user interface.
