win32/README_FEATURES_MSVC.md, before:

Preameble
---
This file attempts to give further info about how to enable features
that are not available in the Visual Studio project files shipped
with the source release archive, i.e. beyond building GTK with the GDK 
Win32 backend, with or without the Broadway GDK backend.

The following also apply to Visual Studio builds done with Meson in terms
of getting the required dependencies for the optional features.

Notes on enabling EGL (ANGLE/D3D support) for Windows/Visual Studio builds
---
There is now support in the GL context creation code for Windows in GDK for
creating and using EGL (OpenGL ES 3) contexts, which can be used instead of
the existing OpenGL (Desktop) support, especially when the graphics drivers
do not support OpenGL adequately.

This support is not enabled by default in the project files.  In order to 
do so, please do the following:

* Obtain or compile a build of recent version of ANGLE.  The one that comes
  with QT 5.10.x is sufficiently recent, but not the one that comes with 
  QT-5.6.x.  Note that Visual Studio 2013 or later is required for building
  ANGLE from QT-5.10.x, but the Visual Studio 2013-built ANGLE DLLs does 
  work  without problems with GTK+ built with Visual Studio 2008~2013.  
  You may need to obtain `D3Dcompiler_[47|43|42].dll` if it does not come 
  with the system (which is part of the DirectX runtimes).  Visual Studio 
  2015 or later can use ANGLE from QT 5.11.x or later, or from Google's
  GIT repos, which may require later version of Visual Studio to build.
  Its headers and .lib needs to be set to be found by the compiler and 
  linker respectively before building libepoxy.

* Build libepoxy with EGL support, which has to be enabled explicitly on
  Windows builds.  Pass in `-Degl=yes` when building libepoxy using Meson.
  Build and install, making sure the headers and .lib can be located by the
  compiler and linker respectively.

* Open the `vsX/gtk+.sln`, and open the project properties in the 
  `gdk3-win32` project.  Under "C/C++", add `GDK_WIN32_ENABLE_EGL` in the 
  `Preprocessor Definitions` to the existing definitions in there for the 
  configuration that is being built.  Then build the solution.
* To force the use of the EGL code, set the envvar `GDK_GL=(...,)gles`, 
  where `(...,)` are the other `GDK_GL` options desired.
 
Enabling the font tweaking features and the font features demo
---
The font tweaking features in the GTK DLL is enabled automatically if
the Pango 1.44.0 and HarfBuzz 2.2.0 (or later) headers and libraries
(and hence DLLs) are found during compile time.  Check in 
`gtkfontchooserwidget.c` that the `#pragma comment(lib, "harfbuzz")` line
to ensure that you have your HarfBuzz .lib file named as such, which
is the default .lib name for HarfBuzz builds.

Alternatively, they can be manually enabled by making sure that 
`HAVE_HARFBUZZ` and `HAVE_PANGOFT2` are defined in `config.h.win32`,
meaning that PangoFT2 must be present, which depends on HarfBuzz, 
FontConfig and FreeType.  You will then need to add to the `gtk3`
projects the .lib's of PangoFT2, HarfBuzz and FreeType in the 
`Additional Libraries` entry under the linker settings.

Please note that the font features demo is not built into gtk3-demo
by default.  To do that, run in a Visual Studio command prompt:

* Go to `$(srcroot)\win32`, and run
 `nmake /f generate-msvc.mak regenerate-demos-h-win32 FONT_FEATURES_DEMO=1`.
 To undo that, run that command without `FONT_FEATURES_DEMO=1`.  Python 3.x
 must be present in your `%PATH%` or passed in via 
 `PYTHON=<path_to_python_interpreter>`.

* If you are building the font features demo with the older PangoFT2-style
 (i.e. pre-Pango-1.44.x and pre-HarfBuzz-2.2.0) support, pass in 
 `FONT_FEATURES_USE_PANGOFT2=1` in addition to `FONT_FEATURES_DEMO=1` in 
 the NMake command line.  The gtk3-demo project files will also be updated 
 with the appropriate dependent libraries linked in-please check that the 
 project settings contain the correct .lib file names for your system, as 
 they assume the most common names are used there.

Building the translations
---
Building translations is supported via Meson builds or via the Visual 
Studio projects, both of which require a working `msgfmt.exe` (from 
`gettext-tools`, a part of gettext) in the `%PATH%`, or for the Visual 
Studio projects, passed into the arguments in `InstallBuildsBase`
in `gtk3-build-defines.[props|vsprops]` with `MSGFMT=<path_to_msgfmt.exe>`.
For the Visual Studio projects, for this to work one needs to also supply 
a `INSTALL_TRANSLATIONS=1` (without the quotes) argument to the same 
`InstallBuildsBase` in the afore-mentioned property sheet.  Using
`msgfmt.exe` from Cygwin or MSYS2 is supported as well.

Commit message:

README_FEATURES_MSVC.md: Mention about enabling EGL
...in a more automated way, since the NMake Makefiles now support doing so.

win32/README_FEATURES_MSVC.md, after:

Preameble
---
This file attempts to give further info about how to enable features
that are not available in the Visual Studio project files shipped
with the source release archive, i.e. beyond building GTK with the GDK 
Win32 backend, with or without the Broadway GDK backend.

The following also apply to Visual Studio builds done with Meson in terms
of getting the required dependencies for the optional features.

Notes on enabling EGL (ANGLE/D3D support) for Windows/Visual Studio builds
---
There is now support in the GL context creation code for Windows in GDK for
creating and using EGL (OpenGL ES 3) contexts, which can be used instead of
the existing OpenGL (Desktop) support, especially when the graphics drivers
do not support OpenGL adequately.

This support is not enabled by default in the project files.  In order to 
do so, please do the following:

* Obtain or compile a build of recent version of ANGLE.  The one that comes
  with QT 5.10.x is sufficiently recent, but not the one that comes with 
  QT-5.6.x.  Note that Visual Studio 2013 or later is required for building
  ANGLE from QT-5.10.x, but the Visual Studio 2013-built ANGLE DLLs does 
  work  without problems with GTK+ built with Visual Studio 2008~2013.  
  You may need to obtain `D3Dcompiler_[47|43|42].dll` if it does not come 
  with the system (which is part of the DirectX runtimes).  Visual Studio 
  2015 or later can use ANGLE from QT 5.11.x or later, or from Google's
  GIT repos, which may require later version of Visual Studio to build.
  Its headers and .lib needs to be set to be found by the compiler and 
  linker respectively before building libepoxy.

* Build libepoxy with EGL support, which has to be enabled explicitly on
  Windows builds.  Pass in `-Degl=yes` when building libepoxy using Meson.
  Build and install, making sure the headers and .lib can be located by the
  compiler and linker respectively.

*  Either:
   * Open the `vsX/gtk+.sln`, and open the project properties in the 
     `gdk3-win32` project.  Under "C/C++", add `GDK_WIN32_ENABLE_EGL` in 
     the `Preprocessor Definitions` to the existing definitions in there 
     for the configuration that is being built.  Then build the solution.
*  Or:
   * Run in a Visual Studio command prompt:
     Go to `$(srcroot)\win32`, and run
     `nmake /f generate-msvc.mak regenerate-gdk-vsproj USE_EGL=1`.
     To undo that, run that command without `USE_EGL=1`.  Python 3.x
     must be present in your `%PATH%` or passed in via
     `PYTHON=<path_to_python_interpreter>`.  This will update all
     `gdk3-win32` projects (i.e. VS2008~2022).
   
* To force the use of the EGL code, set the envvar `GDK_GL=(...,)gles`, 
  where `(...,)` are the other `GDK_GL` options desired.
 
Enabling the font tweaking features and the font features demo
---
The font tweaking features in the GTK DLL is enabled automatically if
the Pango 1.44.0 and HarfBuzz 2.2.0 (or later) headers and libraries
(and hence DLLs) are found during compile time.  Check in 
`gtkfontchooserwidget.c` that the `#pragma comment(lib, "harfbuzz")` line
to ensure that you have your HarfBuzz .lib file named as such, which
is the default .lib name for HarfBuzz builds.

Alternatively, they can be manually enabled by making sure that 
`HAVE_HARFBUZZ` and `HAVE_PANGOFT2` are defined in `config.h.win32`,
meaning that PangoFT2 must be present, which depends on HarfBuzz, 
FontConfig and FreeType.  You will then need to add to the `gtk3`
projects the .lib's of PangoFT2, HarfBuzz and FreeType in the 
`Additional Libraries` entry under the linker settings.

Please note that the font features demo is not built into gtk3-demo
by default.  To do that, run in a Visual Studio command prompt:

* Go to `$(srcroot)\win32`, and run
 `nmake /f generate-msvc.mak regenerate-demos-h-win32 FONT_FEATURES_DEMO=1`.
 To undo that, run that command without `FONT_FEATURES_DEMO=1`.  Python 3.x
 must be present in your `%PATH%` or passed in via 
 `PYTHON=<path_to_python_interpreter>`.

* If you are building the font features demo with the older PangoFT2-style
 (i.e. pre-Pango-1.44.x and pre-HarfBuzz-2.2.0) support, pass in 
 `FONT_FEATURES_USE_PANGOFT2=1` in addition to `FONT_FEATURES_DEMO=1` in 
 the NMake command line.  The gtk3-demo project files will also be updated 
 with the appropriate dependent libraries linked in-please check that the 
 project settings contain the correct .lib file names for your system, as 
 they assume the most common names are used there.

Building the translations
---
Building translations is supported via Meson builds or via the Visual 
Studio projects, both of which require a working `msgfmt.exe` (from 
`gettext-tools`, a part of gettext) in the `%PATH%`, or for the Visual 
Studio projects, passed into the arguments in `InstallBuildsBase`
in `gtk3-build-defines.[props|vsprops]` with `MSGFMT=<path_to_msgfmt.exe>`.
For the Visual Studio projects, for this to work one needs to also supply 
a `INSTALL_TRANSLATIONS=1` (without the quotes) argument to the same 
`InstallBuildsBase` in the afore-mentioned property sheet.  Using
`msgfmt.exe` from Cygwin or MSYS2 is supported as well.
