
=head1 NAME

gtk_hbox - GTK+ horizontal box widget

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <gtk/gtkhbox.h>

 guint      gtk_hbox_get_type (void);
 GtkWidget* gtk_hbox_new      (gint homogeneous,
                               gint spacing);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This widget is a container used to place widgets horizontally in relation
to each other.  This is done by "packing" them into the box with
the functions gtk_box_pack_start and gtk_box_pack_end.

General box functions can be found in gtk_box(1).

=head1 OBJECT HIERARCHY

 gtk_object
 gtk_widget
 gtk_container 
 gtk_box
 gtk_hbox

=head1 USAGE

=head2 Creation

To create a hbox, use the function gtk_hbox_new().  The arguments
you pass to gtk_hbox_new indicate if the hbox should be homogeneous
(that is, if the children should all be given the same amount of 
space all the time), and the amount of space inbetween the children.

The following creates a hbox which is non-homogeneous and will have
4 spacing pixels between the children:

	GtkWidget *hbox;
	hbox = gtk_hbox_new (FALSE, 4);

For instructions on adding children to this newly created hbox,
consult gtk_box(3).

=head1 FUNCTIONS

guint gtk_hbox_get_type (void);

	This function returns the GtkType which is assigned to the
	object class for gtk_hbox.

GtkWidget* gtk_hbox_new (gint homogeneous, gint spacing);

	This functions returns a new hbox widget which can then be
	used as a container for other widgets.  Homogeneous can be
	either TRUE or FALSE and indicates if the children widgets
	will be always be allocated equal area.  Spacing is the 
	number of pixels to put inbetween the children of the box.


=head1 SEE ALSO

gtk_box(3), gtk_vbox(3), gtk_container(3), gtk_widget(3)

=head1 AUTHORS

The author of this man page is Shawn T. Amundson E<lt>amundson@gtk.orgE<gt>.
For the authors of GTK+, see the AUTHORS file in the GTK+ distribution.


